Test, test, test, test, test, test, test.
You kind of alluded to a couple of things.
You said that you've always been very capable of doing something and taking it to the next level, and I guess that applies to your business, and I suppose it applies as well to the library.
I guess you could almost call you genius, which is to... Let's not go overboard.
Let's not go overboard.
But you mentioned, I guess, is it fair to say that this library acquired, you mentioned your wife's death and your son's death.
And I understand that I want to deal with this with the greatest of sensitivity, but I think I can't ignore it either.
And I wonder if this project, upon a certain direction and purpose,
I think it was already started when my wife had been underway for, say, 15, 18 years.
I think what it did, it became more purposeful and perhaps larger in scope and then more focused.
Justin was...
a friend and a supplier and advisor even before that time.
I think after that I did have a sense of wanting to do something that was more lasting, perhaps.
So that made me perhaps a more serious both collector and mission-oriented purpose.
And again, let me say while the paper's running, I want to do this right.
I want you to be pleased with what I do here.
And so I'm certainly willing to go over with you the quotes that I intend to use, if you'd like that.
So no surprises with what I do.
And this book is a book of purpose, so I've lost my train here.
But to reiterate,
the sense of purpose did more or less nucleate at that point.
I think probably we were collecting for ourselves and our children or rationalized for our children but for ourselves as well.
And I think the idea of having a library or an educational library and a library for children hadn't
We hadn't come to that bridge or that next step.
And I didn't come to that until when I was in 79, and I don't think I started thinking about that until the late 80s.
Do you see this, in a way, as a tribute, as a memorial?
Oh, I think the library, my interest in children's books would not have been there without my wife.
And I think I've had other things...
I think I'm indebted to my mother, who gave me
Oh, what the world was through reading, encouraged that.
Can you talk a little bit about that?
You just mentioned that you're from Boston.
You didn't mention your family at all.
Well, I have a brother, a mother-father passed on, but I think my mother was the one who urged us and exposed us to things outside the house.
And what was your name?
Sophie Coates.
My father was... S-O-P-H-I-E.
She was born in Boston, Dorchester.
My father was born in Montreal, and his parents all came from Lithuania.
But she was—I think both our parents gave us a sense.
We knew we were going to get educated, come hell of high water.
What did your brother do?
He was a salesman, rose to be sales manager, worked for more or less one company all his life outside Newark in New England.
In fact, I remember, we used to go on sales trips on the weekend.
He'd leave us in the hotel in Worcester.
Really?
In the lobby.
The old Bancroft probably?
One that had a machine like kicking football somewhere.
I can't remember what it was.
He'd make a sales call.
I had to come in to Durgan Park.
Oh, that was great.
And I always remembered there was a gal, a lady there, and I felt so grown up at eight years old.
And I always wondered why there was the bottle called Four Roses and there was no flowers in it.
Kids, aren't they?
I grew up in Lowell, actually, myself.
You mentioned you were in the Navy, by the way.
I was in the Navy.
What kind of ship were you in?
I was amphibious landing craft and a beach group commander type thing.
Really?
I was in a carrier.
I've been a public affairs officer in the Ibrisconi, as a matter of fact.
I remember passing.
They were in our task force.
Yeah, it was a great ship.
What years were you in?
I was in 50 to 53.
Uh-huh.
Korea then?
Yeah.
So you're over there.
You're an old Westpac sailor.
I used to sail out of Alameda.
I was really taken by it, and this was new to me, you know.
I thought this sense of archaeology really does fascinate me, you know, and it has to have instilled
And you mentioned going through the tapes.
Now, you missed things, which is why I tape it.
You said that you had participated in 25 or 30 gigs in Greece.
Is that right?
Can you tell me a little bit about that, the kinds of things that you did?
Well, I was, when I got out of Navy, I went back to graduate school, and I was a provisional architectural graduate student.
What's the intention of doing what?
To be an architect?
Be an architect, like Frank Lloyd Wright.
But I was better
And I wasn't very disciplined, so I never redid anything.
So I got bored.
But I wasn't that good either.
So Princeton suggested I go elsewhere.
And I did.
So just before leaving, a job opportunity came up from a classmate of being an architect on excavation in Greece.
And I was going to Harvard after that.
To business school?
Well, I had a choice.
I didn't know whether I was going to law school, architecture school, or business school.
I got accepted to all three.
And I decided business school was the shortest number of years.
But I went down to Greece, I bought a book on surveying, and they thought I was an architect, and I really wasn't.
And the right hand didn't know what the left hand was doing.
And...
As I say, I went to Athens, and I missed Athens.
Ended up, really, with my wife.
First time I ever been to New York.
And I worked as a field architect in a little village down in the Peloponnese below August.
And for the next five years, I was there.
Really?
And not five summers, but I spent two years during that time.
Still in your 20s at this point?
Oh, boy.
I was
That was 55, 56.
Yeah, because it's after the service.
Yeah.
So it was 20, 27, yeah, 26, 27, 28 years.
Great time.
Good time.
You know, I had a scholarship, fellowship.
And what were these ancient things that you were digging?
These were things from...
the Mycenaean times, Agamemnon, and before.
So we were digging from early man to the Trojan War period.
Wow.
And I was interested in architecture and early houses.
And the earlier, the better.
I had a childhood interest of where man came from, how, et cetera.
And I used to do a lot of reading as a kid in the library.
So I read all the books and archaeologists again.
And anyway, I went to work, and one of the ways to be successful in that business, although I didn't know it at the time, was to do a right unintelligibly, so they'd have to invite you back the next year to decipher your stuff.
Anyway, I did well enough that I got a fellowship and invited back, so I took time off from business school and went back and forth, and
Then after business school, fortunately, I had not that much responsibility in charge.
My son said, how come when I had no money I could take two months off and now I have all the money and I can take seven days off?
I said, something's wrong.
I said, you're right.
But did you ever, when you handled these things, I guess I'm making a leap here, but when you handled these, I mean, I know I think of something really old or
an old piece of marble even that's part of a temple or something like that.
You really, I mean, these cuneiform tablets that you have.
You must feel something.
Oh, I think, yeah, it's the, you may be mute, and the stones may be mute, but you really have a feeling of, you know, I can listen to the voices.
I'm making them, being overly romantic.
Yeah, that's good.
When I pick up a pot, and I do it to my child, I say, feel this.
You know, some person made this.
and their mate was screaming come in for dinner or do this and the kids are stepping in the charcoal you know and to think you know that here we are with lights it would look miraculous to these people 5,000 years ago and to think that you know I'm doing this having this thing here and 5,000 years is gone and what they were thinking and how the you know their lives were but this must have some kind of a
an impact on, to get back to the coaching children's library, it must have something, some impact.
I think there's a quest, you know, a treasure hunt, or, I think it's a personal treasure hunt.
It happens to be an intellectual treasure hunt rather than one for gold.
Gold was never a thing that I purposely sought.
It sort of happened.
Really?
Yeah.
I always think I walked in shit, you know, but it happened to be gold, but it just happened.
Basically, you can tell me a little bit about your experiences with the business?
Yeah, the business, I couldn't get a job out of business school, and my father-in-law had a either married time and had to either put me to work or support me in the style, which I was accustomed to.
I wanted to be accustomed to.
And he had a small business, and he wanted me to, would I be interested?
And what was the name of the business?
It was at that time called Natone.
N-A-T-O-N-E.
One word?
One word.
He was a sort of super salesperson.
It was his business?
Yeah.
Did they manufacture things?
They made lip brushes.
Lip brushes.
They put lipstick on.
Women's cosmetic accessories.
And when I came in, he was importing a product from Europe.
Brushes?
No.
Other things?
Other things.
If you don't mind talking about the business.
It was a business probably doing about $500,000.
And this is in the 50s?
50s.
And it was a private business.
Based out here?
Based out here.
And...
He didn't have anybody to leave it to, and he wanted—he enjoyed it, and he was very good at it.
And when I was in the Navy out here, he had come down to visit me on the ship before we were married.
What was your name, your ship?
It was the Bayfield.
Onewood?
APA 33, yeah.
And we were, I think, a hundred feet off.
The officers covered in the channel.
San Diego.
And he came down, had been taken down in Maine for three days, didn't get sick, and decided, well, maybe he could go to Europe.
So he went to Europe after that.
And later, he had found this product.
And when I came in... This product being what?
Neutrogena.
And what was it at that point?
It was a soap bar.
The same soap that we characterized today, right?
It was made in Belgium.
He imported it.
And...
Is that what it was called, indulging?
Yeah.
And it means neutralizing in Flemish or in French.
And that was a bland name?
There was one bar.
It wasn't.
And this fellow made it, and he had the vision.
My father-in-law had the vision, one, to give it a high price, and two, to see that the difference was in the transparency.
And if I had been there, I probably would have said, don't take it, but I didn't.
I wasn't there around at the time.
I was working in Greece.
And fortunately, that was the brand that I got involved in, the product.
When you were finally through digging for artifacts.
And he gave me the responsibility for that one.
It was about $80,000 a year.
This is about, like, $60,000 or so, would you say?
No, this was in the...
Late 50s.
And I went over and learned how to make it and set up a little place, smaller than this apartment, and made it downtown near the Good Samaritan.
And a couple of funny stories.
One, I made the bar.
I'm making my first batch, and I had one of the things wrong.
I mean, they had the speed of the mixer.
wrong.
And out came whipped potatoes instead of mixed.
So I had to go in the tank and take a shovel and scoop out the whips, because the whipped potatoes, they wouldn't flow through.
And all the office help wanted to know what the mad son-in-law was doing.
And I had no clothes on.
And I'm in the tank, and I'm laughing because I remember the old cartoons of having the barrel, no clothes.
And fortunately, I am above them.
They don't know why I'm laughing.
As I'm scooping out the stuff, the blades I had designed for the tank are rectangular paddles, but stainless steel and square edges, corners.
This was your machine.
Yeah, I made the machine.
You made it.
Yeah.
Every time I bent down with the shovel, I really, you know, poked my ass on these blades.
So even today in our plant, with all the stuff in the huge, big tanks as big as this whole part of the room, all the blades have rounded corners.
Nobody knows why now, except when you hear this story.
I'm sure you've got scars on your butt, though, right?
And so that was a modification I made.
What did you call that machine?
Just a mixer?
Anyway, I was able again to focus and stay in that one brand and build a brand.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, tell them to come on up.
I'll come on up, please.
And so, and...
He was good enough to let me do what I wanted.
Was it a division in the company?
Well, it was a product.
So the challenge here was to take this soap invented by a Belgian man and to see if it had an upscale market.
No, I think what I saw in it, I didn't want to sell soap.
I wanted to sell something else, health, well-being, and I wanted a brand name.
I didn't want a product.
So what my goal was to take that one brick and make it into a wall.
Again, the metaphor you used yesterday.
Yeah, right.
And so that's what I did.
One product, then I made another product.
Same name, same name.
Oddly enough, I'm now in business.
I share a business with Bill Gates.
And somebody sent me a copy of his biography in which he says, all I am in marketing now is Lloyd Coatsen.
He says this in the book?
Is this the book, the one about the... I don't know which book.
I can't remember.
It's a new one.
It just came out.
No, it's an older one.
Is it?
I think.
Anyway, it was... What he meant was that I had one name.
I made everything Nutritina.
That was a family name.
And they did everything.
My marketing guy went to his company and set it up.
And they made everything Microsoft.
Everything Microsoft.
So that's really the...
I hesitate to use the word genius, but that was the key of all the different products.
How many different products would you say?
Oh, I think we had 30, 40 products.
But they were all in the arena.
And the other stuff I spun off and killed, including the products named after my mother-in-law and all that stuff.
She was very good about it.
I told her, sorry.
So I really believed in focusing and doing one thing well.
everything to everybody.
So anyway, that's business.
How did you get to meet, get together with Gates?
Oh, I was in a startup biotech.
And one of the guys who was a very, who he sponsored coming from Caltech up there, was on our advisory board.
And Bill came in as a backer after we were in
hoping he'll talk to me at some point for the Corbis thing.
I doubt it.
I doubt it, too.
But that's why I haven't even asked.
I'm going up next week for a couple of days to get somebody coming up here.
I've got somebody else.
Really, I didn't have, I really did want to, you know, as a matter of, I know it's a delicate matter, but I, you know, my, I have to
I wanted to ask away.
I guess really what I really wanted to ask, I asked, is this sense of the library as a... I think I'm always... I think one, both archaeology and my own life of being sort of discriminated against always made me more sensitive.
I always felt to be a good marketer, you had to be a loser someplace along the line.
You had to understand what it is to lose something.
If you never lost anything, you're oblivious.
So tell me, how long have you been, we're talking to Ivy, right?
And you're Ivy Trent, right?
T-R-E-N-T.
And you've been Bolton's librarian?
Six years.
And at that point, when you came in, was it mainly to organize the library, uh...
At the time I came, there were about 5,000 titles online, and we had a tremendous backlog of incoming, but hadn't been a lot of problems with duplication and purchasing duplicates.
After three years, we had pretty much caught up and had 20,000 entries.
I didn't do all of those.
We had some people come in to do non-Roman alphabets, so the Hebrew books were done by someone else.
What was your background?
Did you say you were... I came from the book trade.
I worked at Zaitlin for Brugge Booksellers.
Oh, you did?
Zaitlin, yes.
You came here about, that would have been 1990, I guess, when you came here, right?
Yes.
Was there a sense then that all these books were going someplace?
Yes, yes.
So this was the plan.
Yes.
You had been thinking about this, apparently, even though the bequest was two years or so, I guess, right?
So had it formulated at that point that it was Princeton, or was he more or less still developing it as a concept?
He was still considering his options and talking to different people.
It was, at that time, about two blocks from their back gate.
I can see why.
It would have, in some ways, been very desirable for it to go to UC.
Experians don't have the freedom to promise things that private institutions have.
And, of course, he's an alumnus of Craig Youth in that direction.
I'm sure I'll think of other things I want to ask you.
I thought we had a brief.
The thing is, so many collections I've seen, like Betsy Shirley's or I Name Hers, or even Chef Louie's that he's been adding to it, they'd like to think that when it's there, they're done.
Mm-hmm.
It never really happens.
Like Chef Louis says, it's like having a... It's not supposed to happen.
It's like having a baby after the menopause.
I met him when he had the bakery.
Yeah.
Did you?
A friend of mine, my R&D guy, was very interested in cooking and art and everything.
He's a...
He's a sweet guy.
In fact, I'm going to see him in Chicago.
I must say, book people are very nice.
Aren't they, though?
And they're interesting.
It's amazing.
You've never been stiffed by a book.
I mean, I don't know if that's... I mean, you know, I say, well, you don't know my check.
You can send it to me.
It's amazing, isn't it?
It's amazing.
I've noticed the same thing myself.
And I look and I'm interested in other people's collections.
I think, you know, Betsy has a great collection.
Justin's very knowledgeable.
The Lilly collection's great.
You know, there's a lot of good children's, well, let's say a half dozen really good children's book collections.
One in Europe.
I don't know.
There's an interesting story that happens to be European of the International Jugend Bibliothek in Munich,
I don't know if you're familiar with it.
I'm not, but I'm having some European stuff.
Okay, it's in Munich, and it has about 500,000 volumes.
It's in a castle, and it was funded by the... How many volumes?
500,000-something.
It's funded, and the sheep are outside in this little cafeteria, and the public's not really welcome.
But...
It's a private library?
No, it's state and public.
And they have a budget of $12,000 a year, I think, for acquisitions.
But it's pedagogical.
Which you have steadfastly avoided.
Which I stayed away from.
But I went there one time, and it was started, the story that I'm getting too long-winded,
There was a lady from Germany, her husband was from Germany, and Hitler came and they fled Germany and went to New York.
Her husband died during the war in New York, and after the war, she spoke German, she went to work for the American military government through Clay, and in Clay's office.
And she was an administrative assistant, and she had the idea with all the
next generation of German youths that was what they should try to appeal to and there were no books so she asked Clay and she set up a little one room exhibit of a hundred books children's books and from that kept growing out of that grew this and her desire was that the next generation should not be penalized for the past generations
And she was also herself kicked out of Germany, suffered, etc., came back and reseated the children's books thing and went on to start this collection which went around Germany.
Did you give me her name?
Do you have the international... Anyway, I think it's a great human interest story.
It is, yeah.
Well, it kind of fits into that other chapter, though.
And... She left Germany?
She's dead now.
But why did she leave Germany?
Because she's Jewish.
So, what period is this?
During the war.
Nazi Germany.
See, she'll fit into that chapter.
Yeah.
That second chapter of mine is just strictly on this, uh, it's not strictly American.
But the idea that here she is, left Germany, everybody got killed, and all the Jews.
Now, how did you learn this history of her?
Is it written someplace?
Yeah.
There's a little brochure that I think they have on it.
And it's in what town?
Munich.
It's in Munich.
I've got to go to Munich.
because all of Barney's papers went to Munich.
And it's about, oh, I'd say a 20-minute drive from the center of town.
And you get a call, and I forget, there was a lady there.
And occasionally I give a little money, because they don't have any.
I haven't given it recently, but I was impressed with the... Do you have an address or anything, Ivy?
I'm trying to call the aid.
You mentioned, because I've come out to see this, that you're hopeful that there will be an exhibition of the arcs at UCLA.
Yeah, UCLA.
And who are you working with on that?
The Dorn Ross, Dorns, the museum of... Fowler.
Fowler Museum.
Fowler?
F-O-W-L-E-R.
That's at UCLA?
UCLA.
How many arcs would you say you had?
I have no idea.
And when did that start?
Well, for the children, we used to buy books, and I had a son named Noah.
But we'd buy books on Noah's Ark for him, or something that had his name in it.
And when he got killed, I kept buying maybe more books, and I started buying Noah material for a Noah collection.
And I wasn't sure what I was going to do with it.
And so I have the arcs, which don't quite belong in children's books, but I have the books in the arcs that separate it.
So there was shelves in those.
So I've seen them.
Now, did they ultimately go into Princeton, or you haven't decided?
I don't think Princeton would know what to do with Noah's arcs.
And you probably didn't even know these things existed.
I mean, some of those—I mean, I would have not—
You must have just seen them as you traveled or heard about them.
Oh, Noah's Ark and things like that.
Yeah, I wasn't.
I mean, they're not toys.
How would you describe them?
They are toys.
They were toys.
And they came out of a religious heritage, and I'm not a specialist in that.
I noticed in the main Antique Digest, there's, you know, the 1800s Noah's Ark.
Mm-hmm.
They're $14,000, $15,000.
Wow.
I have a couple of modern ones that are close to that.
But I'm not a— You still there?
I'm still here.
Okay, thank goodness.
Do they come from all over the world?
All over the world.
I got just— I thought you have dealers looking for them?
In Colorado, I just bought one on those aqua, the Christmas tree coming out of them, and the animals are hanging from the tree.
great okay could you give him a copy of this letter I'll give you everything I think that you know I think unless you think there's something I haven't covered that I that you'd like to that you think is important that I missed no I'm trying to think I get pleasure from doing it I want to give some pleasure and I'm not the most avaricious collector
I probably collect good and bad, which I shouldn't.
You mean you're collecting habits, your skills?
Yeah, I collect what I like sometimes, and it takes me a lot of discipline to pass by something that's, you know, maybe not pristine.
It's interesting.
I have a two-book contract with Holt, and the second one is it's going to be just about collecting.
And I'm hoping to put in tips from people, not necessarily tips, but how certain people operate.
Now, the way you have bought your books, you've really relied to a great extent on your booksellers, primarily Justin.
Thank you, Ivy.
I don't know.
Ivy's been around for a while.
Ivy, how much do I rely on Justin versus myself?
Volume-wise, the number of books we have are mostly my pick, I'd say.
80% are my pick.
Oh, really?
Now, the expensive ones may be Justin's.
Justin has remarkable expertise on children's books generally, and when it comes to very rare items, when he's in any kind of doubt, Mr. Hudson consults with Justin.
If I'm buying a seven-figure book, I'd ask Justin.
Have you ever bought a seven-figure book?
Which one is that?
Doesn't make any difference.
Oh, come on.
One book, seven?
Well, no, I have about a seven-figure book in my target.
A seven-figure collection, certainly.
You've bought it.
That was the parole you mentioned yesterday.
That's almost two.
All right.
I'll see.
Some have come, oh, please.
You were here?
Yeah.
There was one that, after the earthquake, I think, gee, the people upstairs have a tub if it overflows.
So Ivy was putting umbrellas over these shelves.
Were you affected by the earthquake?
No, not really.
No, we were very lucky.
We didn't lose.
A couple of books came off the shelf.
A few shelves of books came down.
He must be very virtuous, because we had a couple of small...
to bindings of books that weren't worth repairing, really?
I think the things that I've... I think Justin has kept me, I would say, on the highways.
I've tended to go in the byways, but the books have, in a sense, reflected my tastes, or my wife's tastes.
That's a great quote.
And I think also I've had the vision of what the
areas, maybe the building blocks, or what we should do.
Has he helped you sharpen the focus?
He's always been a pencil sharpener for me.
And, of course, that's expertise that's valuable.
Some people think he's very self-serving.
I think he can be as self-serving as you want if you really know you need.
Well, River, look at the collections of self-serving.
I think you can't go wrong with quality.
And you have to have one, and he certainly has his enemies out there, too.
But you have to have them.
You can't make them almost without breaking eggs.
You can't stay up on the hill and not have enemies.
Yeah, that's the way that goes.
But I think, you know, there are a lot of different people in the business, and they all do different things.
Some are good scouts, some are good in technology, some are good in vision, some are good at really knowledge, you know.
Some are good in self, you know, acclimation.
The press release from Princeton, which I briefly looked at, and you mentioned yesterday, and to this, you don't, it's been things to be asked.
You said this will work out to be an eight figure.
Yeah.
That could be anything from 10 to 99.
Could you give me an idea of where you think this will be?
Well, I don't think...
At this moment, it's not gonna be 99.
It could, but it won't.
So, and what this refers to is it's not just because we're all dazzled by numbers, because you said something yesterday.
There was a time when I didn't think business was the end of the world.
That's when you were being an architect.
I never thought of business.
But I think we're back to that now.
You're out of the business, and you're really focusing.
My children said I should get therapy because I feel so good about being out of something I did.
I built as a child for 39, 40 years.
So I built a business from $80,000 and sold it for close to a billion.
Is that the number?
Wow.
That's a lot of money.
Really?
Yeah.
I can't understand it myself.
Wow.
But you're doing, apparently, you're smiling.
This must be giving me tremendous satisfaction.
I do.
I like books.
Others like books.
My brother's a doctor in Buffalo.
What's his name?
Robert Coatsen.
Do you mind if I call him?
No, and he has children's books.
And he's really more discerning than I am, but his problem is his mind says $5 is his price limit, I'm making this up.
And over $5 is mine.
So, and we got, my wife and I got him interested in children's books, but he collects books in Civil War, early medical books, has a really, and he is buried in books.
One time my wife said, why don't you and your brother go into the book business?
have 47 Charing Cross, you know.
Yeah.
And I'd be the treasurer and he'd be the president.
And I said to him, Bob, why don't you give up medicine?
We'll do something.
He's listed in the book, the physician and the book once I should have any trouble finding him.
No.
He treats, I can't remember what he calls them, book scouts for New York State, free.
more or less and they feed him books yeah I love it so he's a collector oh yeah and it's children's books well he collects now I think he collects children's books Civil War books medical books geography geography and so he says I'll take any of you know I told you I have triplicates and duplicates any duplicates so I got you know shelves of
Well, I saw the three syntax over there.
I mean, why did you have three?
Oh, those are probably three out of the six I have.
But what I'm doing is I'm buying one each for all of my children, you know, like I showed you.
And so I've tried to be sort of even-handed about it.
There's one one something, and it was something that was in the Fatafoos and Denefers.
So I had to buy, or the Munari books.
So they're all brought up, and when ours had to get sets of all of them for them.
Your grandchildren?
Yes.
Just four of them now.
I think we're set.
Okay.
And, you know, this is my next job.
So you've got a want list here.
It's when we were very young, now we are six, Winnie the Pooh, house of Pooh Corner,
Peter and Jane and N-O-D-D-Y.
These are six titles that your daughter sent.
When my wife and I in the early years, we used to put out books called The Occasional Press, and we'd do little chapbooks for the children or alphabet things.
I don't know if we have any around, but...
Do we have any here?
Yeah.
Should we show them one?
Sure.
It's in the other unit, though.
Oh.
You want to see what we've got?
May I?
Sure.
I came to get one.
I was, uh, came and the guy said, well, I'll give you a glass of champagne and you can catch the afternoon plane back to L.A.
And I said, I'm here to work in the factory and on the floor.
Well, after a few bottles of champagne, nine in the morning, uh,
He realized I was going to stay, and I stayed for six weeks, and I learned how to make it.
But my first assignment was in a dungeon with two guys.
One was Flemish, and one was called the Company Idiot.
And it was about the size of that area in there, 12 by 12, which had like a rack, a mechanical rack on it.
It had an archery target and had a small window.
And I knew what the window was for.
That was light.
It looked like a prison cell.
I knew what the rack was for.
There was a sort of slicing machine.
There were big cakes like cheese with a wire bow.
I didn't know what the archery target was for.
So here are these two guys, five feet, five, big 200 pounds, both wooden clogs.
And I asked, what was the archery?
And they said, like this.
And they both get this bow in there, this bow like, and they take the wire cutter through the bar.
And as it goes through the end of this huge cake,
goes twang, and, you know, 500 pounds goes against the wall.
And they had to out shoot targets.
So my note to myself was, have to change this process to the American.
But anyway, you know, when they introduced me to the village or the company idiot, I heard him say something, and I realized I understood it.
What he was speaking was Albanian.
It's very close.
And I understood Albanian because my Greek workmen were from Albania.
So I started talking to him.
Next day, all around through the factory there, the Plemish factory, there were two company idiots, him and me.
Oh, Albanian is very, very close to it.
Well, no, it's a really, it's a different root language.
It is, but, I mean, the Greeks, they're up in that part of it.
Oh, yeah, they're all mixed.
They're called Epidotes.
Right, and they all come down.
They've been coming down, and they've been in the Peloponnesian now.
They're going, spreading out in the islands because there's no money in Albanian.
My mother's side is from the Peloponnesos down in Mani.
It's not because he wanted to close, they just like tripled his rent, you know, and he just couldn't afford to do it.
And there really is not a good Greek restaurant in Boston now.
There's not a good Greek restaurant here.
That one I went to a couple of years ago is pretty good.
I forget the name.
There is a new place on 3rd, down towards near La Brea, and it's called Sophie's.
S-O-F-I-E, I think.
Sophia.
Yeah, but it's called Sophie's, and it's a Greek restaurant.
Anyway, these were... You made these?
Yeah.
This is called A Latter-day, L-A-T-T-E-I-day, Chapbook, An Alphabet of Wishes from the Clotson Family, Lloyd, Joanne, Clarina.
That could be a Greek name, too, you know.
It is a Greek name, yes.
Little girl.
Yeah.
Toby, Toby, E-Y, Eric, and you are published by the Occasional Press.
Is this your press?
No, it wasn't.
We just had it printed by some commercial printers.
And these things that you wrote that you wrote?
Yeah, yeah.
My wife did most of this.
If wishes were horses, then beggars would ride.
We wish you art, adventures, assurance, ability, appetite, and, oh, it goes on to the next one, B, we wish you blessings.
This is very clever.
Well, the clever part is my wife's.
And then finally it ends up with Z, we wish you zeal, zest, xenocrelation, whatever one wishes it to me.
Z-Y-N-O-C-R-I-L-L-A-T-I-U-R.
It's 28 pages on this page.
The date here, 1973.
Now, did you send these out as Christmas greetings?
Lovely.
I'm glad you showed me these.
How often did you do these?
Once a year?
Once a generation.
The tragical death of an apple pie.
And you wrote these as a family?
Yeah.
And produced them as a family?
They made chop marks and prints.
I think this one here may have been.
And how many of these do you think you did, half a dozen, a dozen?
No, we'd probably print it up, 100, 200.
I mean, but how many different roles?
Two I can see, but I don't know how many more.
The tragical death of an apple pie, which was cut to pieces and eaten by 26 persons, with whom all young folks ought to be well acquainted.
A, apple pie.
B, bit it.
C, cut it.
D, dealt it.
E, eat it.
F, fought for it.
G, got it all the way through to
viewed it, wanted it, and then X, Y, and Z, and all wished for peace in hand.
That's lovely.
Are they all alphabet?
Yes.
It's written in 1974, an edition of 500, by the occasional press, Beverly Hills, California.
Thank you for bringing me that.
Yes, there he is.
Okay, do you need to be back here?
I will.
I'll be in touch.
Okay.
And maybe I'll see you up in Sanford.
Yeah, I'm going to be walking around.
Thanks.